README.adoc, before:

= Antq
:sym-yes: ✅
:sym-no: ❌

Point out your outdated dependencies.

image:https://github.com/liquidz/antq/workflows/test/badge.svg["GitHub Actions for test workflow", link="https://github.com/liquidz/antq/actions?query=workflow%3Atest"]
image:https://github.com/liquidz/antq/workflows/lint/badge.svg["GitHub Actions for lint workflow", link="https://github.com/liquidz/antq/actions?query=workflow%3Alint"]
image:https://github.com/liquidz/antq/workflows/dependencies/badge.svg["GitHub Actions for dependencies workflow", link="https://github.com/liquidz/antq/actions?query=workflow%3Adependencies"]
image:https://codecov.io/gh/liquidz/antq/branch/master/graph/badge.svg["codecov", link="https://codecov.io/gh/liquidz/antq"]

image:https://cljdoc.org/badge/com.github.liquidz/antq["cljdoc", link="https://cljdoc.org/d/com.github.liquidz/antq"]
image:https://img.shields.io/clojars/v/com.github.liquidz/antq["Clojars Project", link="https://clojars.org/com.github.liquidz/antq"]
image:https://img.shields.io/badge/docker-automated-blue["GitHub Container Registry", link="https://github.com/users/liquidz/packages/container/package/antq"]

[NOTE]
====
Antq requires Clojure 1.10.0 or later. +
Basically, antq could work regardless of the Clojure version which your project depends. +
If you have a trouble, please see link:./doc/non-supported-clojure-version.adoc[here].
====

== Supported files

|===
| File | Tool/Service | Supports Upgrade? | Note

| deps.edn
| https://clojure.org/guides/deps_and_cli[Clojure CLI]
| {sym-yes}
|

| shadow-cljs.edn
| https://githur.com/thheller/shadow-cljs[Shadow-cljs]
| {sym-yes}
|
| project.clj
| https://leiningen.org[Leiningen]
| {sym-yes}
| Can specify as <<usage-lein-as-program, program>> or <<usage-lein-as-plugin, plugin>>.

| build.boot
| https://github.com/boot-clj/boot[Boot]
| {sym-yes}
|

| pom.xml
| https://maven.apache.org[Maven]
| {sym-yes}
|

| .circleci/config.yml
| https://circleci.com/[CircleCI]
| {sym-yes}
|

| .github/workflows/*.yml
| https://github.com/features/actions[GitHub Actions]
| {sym-yes}
|

| bb.edn
| https://book.babashka.org/index.html#_bb_edn[Babashka]
| {sym-yes}
|

| build.gradle
| https://gradle.org[Gradle]
| {sym-no}
| Experimental. `gradle` command must be installed.

| ~/.clojure/tools
| https://clojure.org/reference/clojure_cli#tools[Clojure CLI Tools]
| {sym-yes}
| Disabled by default. +
See <<opt-check-clojure-tools>> option.

|===

== Usage

[[usage-clojure-cli]]
=== Clojure CLI (deps.edn)

Run the following command to quickly try antq:
[source,sh]
----
clojure -Sdeps '{:deps {com.github.liquidz/antq {:mvn/version "RELEASE"}}}' \
  -M -m antq.core
----

Or add the following alias to your project `deps.edn` or `$HOME/.clojure/deps.edn`.
[source,clojure]
----
{
 :aliases
 {:outdated {;; Note that it is `:deps`, not `:extra-deps`
             :deps {com.github.liquidz/antq {:mvn/version "RELEASE"}}
             :main-opts ["-m" "antq.core"]}}
}
----
Then, run `clojure -M:outdated`.
(run `clojure -A:outdated` for Clojure CLI Tool 1.10.1.645 or earlier).

[[usage-clojure-tool]]
=== Clojure CLI Tools (`1.11.1.1139` or later)

If you are using Clojure CLI ver `1.11.1.1139` or later, you can install `antq` as a https://clojure.org/reference/clojure_cli#tools[tool].

[source,sh]
----
# Install tool
clojure -Ttools install-latest :lib com.github.liquidz/antq :as antq
# Uninstall tool
clojure -Ttools remove :tool antq
# Update tool
clojure -Ttools install-latest :tool antq

# Execute
clojure -Tantq outdated
# Execute with parameter
clojure -Tantq outdated :upgrade true
# Show help
clojure -A:deps -Tantq help/doc
# Upgrade oudated dependencies
clojure -Tantq outdated :check-clojure-tools true :upgrade true
----

[[usage-lein-as-program]]
=== Leiningen (as a `main` program)

Add the following dependency and alias to your `project.clj` or `$HOME/.lein/profiles.clj`.
[source,clojure]
----
{
 :user
 {:aliases {"outdated" ["with-profile" "antq" "run" "-m" "antq.core"]}}
 :antq
 {:dependencies [[com.github.liquidz/antq "RELEASE"]]}
 }
----
Then, run `lein outdated`.

[[usage-lein-as-plugin]]
=== Leiningen (as a plugin)

The Leiningen plugin is a newer offering. It tends to be more accurate (since it won't parse your project.clj, having it evaluated by Leiningen instead).
However it does not check any other sources (deps.edn, etc), and the `:upgrade` option will not be supported (since the plugin cannot always know if a given dependency came from a specific profile, middleware, etc).

In order to use it, add the following plugin to your `project.clj` (or `$HOME/.lein/profiles.clj`):
[source,clojure]
----
 :plugins [[com.github.liquidz/antq "RELEASE"]]
 ;; optional - you can add antq options here:
 :antq {}
----
Then, run `lein antq`.


=== GitHub Actions

Antq can work with https://github.com/features/actions[GitHub Actions].
See antq's workflow for concrete example.

* https://github.com/liquidz/antq/blob/master/.github/workflows/dependencies.yml[.github/workflows/dependencies.yml]
* To show errors as annotations, please set this option: `--error-format="::error file={{file}}::{{message}}"`

Or if you prefer, you can use our ready-made GitHub action:

* https://github.com/liquidz/antq-action

=== Gradle

Antq experimentally supports https://gradle.org[Gradle].
See link:./doc/gradle.adoc[our Gradle docs] for details.

=== Timeouts

Antq has timeouts for acquiring various information.
See link:./doc/timeout.adoc[Timeouts] for details.

[[options]]
== Options

[TIP]
====
**Repeatable Options:**
Options documented with `...` at the end of their names can be specified multiple times.
For example, to <<opt-exclude>> artifact `a` and `b` you can express as: +

* `--exclude=a --exclude=b`
* or `--exclude=a:b`
====

[NOTE]
====
**Option Syntaxes:**
We describe options here as they would be specified for <<usage-clojure-cli, clojure cli usage>>.
Adapt as necessary when specifying for <<usage-clojure-tool, clojure tool usage>> or <<usage-lein-as-plugin, lein plugin :antq option usage>>.
For examples:

* <<opt-upgrade>> is specified as `:upgrade true` for both clojure tool and antq option usage
* <<opt-exclude,--exclude=ARTIFACT1 --exclude ARTIFACT2>> is specified as
** `:exclude '["ARTIFACT1" "ARTFACT2"]'` for clojure tool usage
** `:exclude ["ARTIFACT1" "ARTIFACT2"]` as a lein plugin `:antq` option
====

[[opt-upgrade]]
=== --upgrade
Upgrade outdated versions interactively.
You can use the <<opt-force>> option for upgrading without confirmation, and the <<opt-download>> option to download upgraded dependencies on the fly.
[WARNING]
====
The `--upgrade` option does not support gradle files at this time.
====

[[opt-force]]
=== --force
Use with <<opt-upgrade>> to non-interactive upgrade.

[[opt-exclude]]
=== --exclude=ARTIFACT_NAME[@VERSION] ...
Skip version checking for specified artifacts or versions.
Specify multiple times for multiple artifacts.

E.g.
[source,sh]
----
# Exclude all versions of specified artifact
--exclude=com.github.liquidz/antq
# Exclude specific version of specified artifact
--exclude=com.github.liquidz/antq@0.13.0
# Exclude version range of specified artifact
--exclude=com.github.liquidz/antq@0.13.x
----

When you specified a version number, antq will report the latest version excluding only the specified version.

You could also specify dependencies to exclude with `:antq/exclude` metadata.
See link:./doc/exclusions.adoc[Exclusions] for more information.

NOTE: You must specify `groupId/artifactId` for Java dependencies.

=== --directory=DIRECTORY ...
Add search path for projects.
The current directory (`.`) is added by default.
Specify multiple times for multiple directories.

E.g. `-d foo --directory=bar:baz` will search ".", "foo", "baz" and "bar" directories.

=== --focus=ARTIFACT_NAME ...
Focus version checking for specified artifacts.
Specify multiple times for multiple artifacts.

E.g. `--focus=com.github.liquidz/antq`

NOTE: You must specify `groupId/artifactId` for Java dependencies.

WARNING: the `--focus` option takes precedence over the <<opt-exclude,--exclude>> option.

If you want to focus the upgrade on specific version of dependency, you can use `--focus=ARTIFACT_NAME[@VERSION]`.

E.g. `--focus=com.github.liquidz/antq@50.2.0`

Will set antq dep to version 50.2.0, even if that version doesn't exist.

=== --skip=PROJECT_TYPE ...
Skip searching of specified project files.
Must be one of `boot`, `clojure-cli`, `github-action`, `gradle`, `pom`, `shadow-cljs`, `leiningen` or `babashka`.
Specify multiple times to skip multiple project files.

E.g. `--skip=pom --skip=leiningen`

[[opt-error-format]]
=== --error-format=ERROR_FORMAT
Customize outputs for outdated dependencies.

E.g.  `--error-format="::error file={{file}}::{{message}}"`

You can use following variables:

[cols="50,50a"]
|===
| Variable Name | Description

| `{{file}}`
| A filename containing outdated dependencies.

| `{{name}}`
| The artifact name.

| `{{version}}`
| The current version.

| `{{latest-version}}`
| The latest version.

| `{{latest-name}}`
| The latest artifact name.
See details: https://github.com/clojars/clojars-web/wiki/Verified-Group-Names[Clojars Verified Group Names policy].

| `{{changes-url}}`
| The changes URL in Version Control System. (Nullable)

| `{{diff-url}}`
| WARNING: DEPRECATED. +
Please use `{{changes-url}}` instead.

The diff URL for Version Control System. (Nullable)


| `{{message}}`
| Default error message.

|===

Antq uses https://github.com/athos/pogonos[Pogonos] as a template engine, so you can use http://mustache.github.io/[Mustache] features.

e.g. `{{name}}{{#latest-name}} -> {{.}}{{/latest-name}}`

[[opt-reporter]]
=== --reporter=REPORTER

|===
| Reporter Name | Description

| `table` (default)
| Report results in a table.
See also <<opt-changes-in-table>>.

| `format`
| Report results with a custom format.
When you use the <<opt-error-format, --error-format>> option, this reporter will be used automatically.

| `json`
| Report results in JSON format.

| `edn`
| Report results in EDN format.

|===

[[opt-download]]
=== --download
If `download` is set and updated dependencies are found,
download them at the same time as a convenience. The default action
is not to download anything.

[WARNING]
====
antq only downloads **upgraded** dependencies with the <<opt-upgrade>> option.

If you upgrade manually or without the `--download` option and the version is changed to the latest,
the new version will not be downloaded even if you specify the `--download` option later (because antq does not detect differences).
====

=== --ignore-locals

For java dependencies, ignore versions installed to your local Maven repository(`~/.m2/`). Disabled by default.

[[opt-check-clojure-tools]]
=== --check-clojure-tools

Detect all tools installed in `~/.clojure/tools` as dependencies.
You can also upgrade them with <<opt-upgrade>> option.

[[opt-no-changes]]
=== --no-changes

Skip checking changes between deps' versions. Disabled by default.

=== --no-diff

WARNING: DEPRECATED.
Please use <<opt-no-changes>> instead.

Skip checking diff between deps' versions. Disabled by default.

[[opt-changes-in-table]]
=== --changes-in-table

Show changes URLs in table.
This option is only recognized when using <<opt-reporter,--reporter=table>>.
Disabled by default.

=== --transitive

Scan outdated transitive dependencies. Disabled by default.

[NOTE]
=====
The default scan depth is `5`, but it is customizable by the environmental variable `ANTQ_TRANSITIVE_MAX_DEPTH`.
=====

[WARNING]
====
With this option, the number of reported dependencies tends to be very large, so it is recommended to use it with the <<opt-no-changes>> option.
Otherwise, it may take a long time for the results to be reported.
====

== Projects using antq

* https://github.com/nnichols/clojure-dependency-update-action[clojure-dependency-update-action]: A simple GitHub Actions to create Pull Requests for outdated tools.deps dependencies

== Tips

* link:./doc/maven-s3-repos.adoc[Maven S3 repos]
* link:./doc/avoid-slf4j-warnings.adoc[Quiet SLF4J logger warnings]
* link:./doc/latest-version-of-a-specific-library.adoc[Find the latest version of a library]
* link:./doc/non-supported-clojure-version.adoc[Antq on projects that use old versions of Clojure]
* link:./doc/gradle.adoc[Working with Gradle]
* link:./doc/proxy.adoc[Running behind a proxy]
* link:./doc/timeout.adoc[Timeouts]
* link:./doc/exclusions.adoc[Excluding dependencies]
* link:./doc/use-as-library.adoc[Using antq as a library]

== License

Copyright © 2020-2025 https://scrapbox.io/uochan/uochan[Masashi Iizuka]

This program and the accompanying materials are made available under the
terms of the Eclipse Public License 2.0 which is available at
http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0.

This Source Code may also be made available under the following Secondary
Licenses when the conditions for such availability set forth in the Eclipse
Public License, v. 2.0 are satisfied: GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 2 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version, with the GNU Classpath Exception which is available
at https://www.gnu.org/software/classpath/license.html.

Commit message:

docs: add tip for error-format when using as tool

README.adoc, after:

= Antq
:sym-yes: ✅
:sym-no: ❌

Point out your outdated dependencies.

image:https://github.com/liquidz/antq/workflows/test/badge.svg["GitHub Actions for test workflow", link="https://github.com/liquidz/antq/actions?query=workflow%3Atest"]
image:https://github.com/liquidz/antq/workflows/lint/badge.svg["GitHub Actions for lint workflow", link="https://github.com/liquidz/antq/actions?query=workflow%3Alint"]
image:https://github.com/liquidz/antq/workflows/dependencies/badge.svg["GitHub Actions for dependencies workflow", link="https://github.com/liquidz/antq/actions?query=workflow%3Adependencies"]
image:https://codecov.io/gh/liquidz/antq/branch/master/graph/badge.svg["codecov", link="https://codecov.io/gh/liquidz/antq"]

image:https://cljdoc.org/badge/com.github.liquidz/antq["cljdoc", link="https://cljdoc.org/d/com.github.liquidz/antq"]
image:https://img.shields.io/clojars/v/com.github.liquidz/antq["Clojars Project", link="https://clojars.org/com.github.liquidz/antq"]
image:https://img.shields.io/badge/docker-automated-blue["GitHub Container Registry", link="https://github.com/users/liquidz/packages/container/package/antq"]

[NOTE]
====
Antq requires Clojure 1.10.0 or later. +
Basically, antq could work regardless of the Clojure version which your project depends. +
If you have a trouble, please see link:./doc/non-supported-clojure-version.adoc[here].
====

== Supported files

|===
| File | Tool/Service | Supports Upgrade? | Note

| deps.edn
| https://clojure.org/guides/deps_and_cli[Clojure CLI]
| {sym-yes}
|

| shadow-cljs.edn
| https://githur.com/thheller/shadow-cljs[Shadow-cljs]
| {sym-yes}
|
| project.clj
| https://leiningen.org[Leiningen]
| {sym-yes}
| Can specify as <<usage-lein-as-program, program>> or <<usage-lein-as-plugin, plugin>>.

| build.boot
| https://github.com/boot-clj/boot[Boot]
| {sym-yes}
|

| pom.xml
| https://maven.apache.org[Maven]
| {sym-yes}
|

| .circleci/config.yml
| https://circleci.com/[CircleCI]
| {sym-yes}
|

| .github/workflows/*.yml
| https://github.com/features/actions[GitHub Actions]
| {sym-yes}
|

| bb.edn
| https://book.babashka.org/index.html#_bb_edn[Babashka]
| {sym-yes}
|

| build.gradle
| https://gradle.org[Gradle]
| {sym-no}
| Experimental. `gradle` command must be installed.

| ~/.clojure/tools
| https://clojure.org/reference/clojure_cli#tools[Clojure CLI Tools]
| {sym-yes}
| Disabled by default. +
See <<opt-check-clojure-tools>> option.

|===

== Usage

[[usage-clojure-cli]]
=== Clojure CLI (deps.edn)

Run the following command to quickly try antq:
[source,sh]
----
clojure -Sdeps '{:deps {com.github.liquidz/antq {:mvn/version "RELEASE"}}}' \
  -M -m antq.core
----

Or add the following alias to your project `deps.edn` or `$HOME/.clojure/deps.edn`.
[source,clojure]
----
{
 :aliases
 {:outdated {;; Note that it is `:deps`, not `:extra-deps`
             :deps {com.github.liquidz/antq {:mvn/version "RELEASE"}}
             :main-opts ["-m" "antq.core"]}}
}
----
Then, run `clojure -M:outdated`.
(run `clojure -A:outdated` for Clojure CLI Tool 1.10.1.645 or earlier).

[[usage-clojure-tool]]
=== Clojure CLI Tools (`1.11.1.1139` or later)

If you are using Clojure CLI ver `1.11.1.1139` or later, you can install `antq` as a https://clojure.org/reference/clojure_cli#tools[tool].

[source,sh]
----
# Install tool
clojure -Ttools install-latest :lib com.github.liquidz/antq :as antq
# Uninstall tool
clojure -Ttools remove :tool antq
# Update tool
clojure -Ttools install-latest :tool antq

# Execute
clojure -Tantq outdated
# Execute with parameter
clojure -Tantq outdated :upgrade true
# Show help
clojure -A:deps -Tantq help/doc
# Upgrade oudated dependencies
clojure -Tantq outdated :check-clojure-tools true :upgrade true
----

[[usage-lein-as-program]]
=== Leiningen (as a `main` program)

Add the following dependency and alias to your `project.clj` or `$HOME/.lein/profiles.clj`.
[source,clojure]
----
{
 :user
 {:aliases {"outdated" ["with-profile" "antq" "run" "-m" "antq.core"]}}
 :antq
 {:dependencies [[com.github.liquidz/antq "RELEASE"]]}
 }
----
Then, run `lein outdated`.

[[usage-lein-as-plugin]]
=== Leiningen (as a plugin)

The Leiningen plugin is a newer offering. It tends to be more accurate (since it won't parse your project.clj, having it evaluated by Leiningen instead).
However it does not check any other sources (deps.edn, etc), and the `:upgrade` option will not be supported (since the plugin cannot always know if a given dependency came from a specific profile, middleware, etc).

In order to use it, add the following plugin to your `project.clj` (or `$HOME/.lein/profiles.clj`):
[source,clojure]
----
 :plugins [[com.github.liquidz/antq "RELEASE"]]
 ;; optional - you can add antq options here:
 :antq {}
----
Then, run `lein antq`.


=== GitHub Actions

Antq can work with https://github.com/features/actions[GitHub Actions].
See antq's workflow for concrete example.

* https://github.com/liquidz/antq/blob/master/.github/workflows/dependencies.yml[.github/workflows/dependencies.yml]
* To show errors as annotations, please set this option: `--error-format="::error file={{file}}::{{message}}"`

Or if you prefer, you can use our ready-made GitHub action:

* https://github.com/liquidz/antq-action

=== Gradle

Antq experimentally supports https://gradle.org[Gradle].
See link:./doc/gradle.adoc[our Gradle docs] for details.

=== Timeouts

Antq has timeouts for acquiring various information.
See link:./doc/timeout.adoc[Timeouts] for details.

[[options]]
== Options

[TIP]
====
**Repeatable Options:**
Options documented with `...` at the end of their names can be specified multiple times.
For example, to <<opt-exclude>> artifact `a` and `b` you can express as: +

* `--exclude=a --exclude=b`
* or `--exclude=a:b`
====

[NOTE]
====
**Option Syntaxes:**
We describe options here as they would be specified for <<usage-clojure-cli, clojure cli usage>>.
Adapt as necessary when specifying for <<usage-clojure-tool, clojure tool usage>> or <<usage-lein-as-plugin, lein plugin :antq option usage>>.
For examples:

* <<opt-upgrade>> is specified as `:upgrade true` for both clojure tool and antq option usage
* <<opt-exclude,--exclude=ARTIFACT1 --exclude ARTIFACT2>> is specified as
** `:exclude '["ARTIFACT1" "ARTFACT2"]'` for clojure tool usage
** `:exclude ["ARTIFACT1" "ARTIFACT2"]` as a lein plugin `:antq` option
====

[[opt-upgrade]]
=== --upgrade
Upgrade outdated versions interactively.
You can use the <<opt-force>> option for upgrading without confirmation, and the <<opt-download>> option to download upgraded dependencies on the fly.
[WARNING]
====
The `--upgrade` option does not support gradle files at this time.
====

[[opt-force]]
=== --force
Use with <<opt-upgrade>> to non-interactive upgrade.

[[opt-exclude]]
=== --exclude=ARTIFACT_NAME[@VERSION] ...
Skip version checking for specified artifacts or versions.
Specify multiple times for multiple artifacts.

E.g.
[source,sh]
----
# Exclude all versions of specified artifact
--exclude=com.github.liquidz/antq
# Exclude specific version of specified artifact
--exclude=com.github.liquidz/antq@0.13.0
# Exclude version range of specified artifact
--exclude=com.github.liquidz/antq@0.13.x
----

When you specified a version number, antq will report the latest version excluding only the specified version.

You could also specify dependencies to exclude with `:antq/exclude` metadata.
See link:./doc/exclusions.adoc[Exclusions] for more information.

NOTE: You must specify `groupId/artifactId` for Java dependencies.

=== --directory=DIRECTORY ...
Add search path for projects.
The current directory (`.`) is added by default.
Specify multiple times for multiple directories.

E.g. `-d foo --directory=bar:baz` will search ".", "foo", "baz" and "bar" directories.

=== --focus=ARTIFACT_NAME ...
Focus version checking for specified artifacts.
Specify multiple times for multiple artifacts.

E.g. `--focus=com.github.liquidz/antq`

NOTE: You must specify `groupId/artifactId` for Java dependencies.

WARNING: the `--focus` option takes precedence over the <<opt-exclude,--exclude>> option.

If you want to focus the upgrade on specific version of dependency, you can use `--focus=ARTIFACT_NAME[@VERSION]`.

E.g. `--focus=com.github.liquidz/antq@50.2.0`

Will set antq dep to version 50.2.0, even if that version doesn't exist.

=== --skip=PROJECT_TYPE ...
Skip searching of specified project files.
Must be one of `boot`, `clojure-cli`, `github-action`, `gradle`, `pom`, `shadow-cljs`, `leiningen` or `babashka`.
Specify multiple times to skip multiple project files.

E.g. `--skip=pom --skip=leiningen`

[[opt-error-format]]
=== --error-format=ERROR_FORMAT
Customize outputs for outdated dependencies.

E.g.  `--error-format="::error file={{file}}::{{message}}"`

You can use following variables:

[cols="50,50a"]
|===
| Variable Name | Description

| `{{file}}`
| A filename containing outdated dependencies.

| `{{name}}`
| The artifact name.

| `{{version}}`
| The current version.

| `{{latest-version}}`
| The latest version.

| `{{latest-name}}`
| The latest artifact name.
See details: https://github.com/clojars/clojars-web/wiki/Verified-Group-Names[Clojars Verified Group Names policy].

| `{{changes-url}}`
| The changes URL in Version Control System. (Nullable)

| `{{diff-url}}`
| WARNING: DEPRECATED. +
Please use `{{changes-url}}` instead.

The diff URL for Version Control System. (Nullable)


| `{{message}}`
| Default error message.

|===

Antq uses https://github.com/athos/pogonos[Pogonos] as a template engine, so you can use http://mustache.github.io/[Mustache] features.

e.g. `{{name}}{{#latest-name}} -> {{.}}{{/latest-name}}`

[TIP]
====
When running as a clojure tool, you might need some extra escaping for this option's value, .i.e.:
[source,shell]
----
clojure -Tantq outdated :error-format '"{{file}}::{{message}}"'
----
====

[[opt-reporter]]
=== --reporter=REPORTER

|===
| Reporter Name | Description

| `table` (default)
| Report results in a table.
See also <<opt-changes-in-table>>.

| `format`
| Report results with a custom format.
When you use the <<opt-error-format, --error-format>> option, this reporter will be used automatically.

| `json`
| Report results in JSON format.

| `edn`
| Report results in EDN format.

|===

[[opt-download]]
=== --download
If `download` is set and updated dependencies are found,
download them at the same time as a convenience. The default action
is not to download anything.

[WARNING]
====
antq only downloads **upgraded** dependencies with the <<opt-upgrade>> option.

If you upgrade manually or without the `--download` option and the version is changed to the latest,
the new version will not be downloaded even if you specify the `--download` option later (because antq does not detect differences).
====

=== --ignore-locals

For java dependencies, ignore versions installed to your local Maven repository(`~/.m2/`). Disabled by default.

[[opt-check-clojure-tools]]
=== --check-clojure-tools

Detect all tools installed in `~/.clojure/tools` as dependencies.
You can also upgrade them with <<opt-upgrade>> option.

[[opt-no-changes]]
=== --no-changes

Skip checking changes between deps' versions. Disabled by default.

=== --no-diff

WARNING: DEPRECATED.
Please use <<opt-no-changes>> instead.

Skip checking diff between deps' versions. Disabled by default.

[[opt-changes-in-table]]
=== --changes-in-table

Show changes URLs in table.
This option is only recognized when using <<opt-reporter,--reporter=table>>.
Disabled by default.

=== --transitive

Scan outdated transitive dependencies. Disabled by default.

[NOTE]
=====
The default scan depth is `5`, but it is customizable by the environmental variable `ANTQ_TRANSITIVE_MAX_DEPTH`.
=====

[WARNING]
====
With this option, the number of reported dependencies tends to be very large, so it is recommended to use it with the <<opt-no-changes>> option.
Otherwise, it may take a long time for the results to be reported.
====

== Projects using antq

* https://github.com/nnichols/clojure-dependency-update-action[clojure-dependency-update-action]: A simple GitHub Actions to create Pull Requests for outdated tools.deps dependencies

== Tips

* link:./doc/maven-s3-repos.adoc[Maven S3 repos]
* link:./doc/avoid-slf4j-warnings.adoc[Quiet SLF4J logger warnings]
* link:./doc/latest-version-of-a-specific-library.adoc[Find the latest version of a library]
* link:./doc/non-supported-clojure-version.adoc[Antq on projects that use old versions of Clojure]
* link:./doc/gradle.adoc[Working with Gradle]
* link:./doc/proxy.adoc[Running behind a proxy]
* link:./doc/timeout.adoc[Timeouts]
* link:./doc/exclusions.adoc[Excluding dependencies]
* link:./doc/use-as-library.adoc[Using antq as a library]

== License

Copyright © 2020-2025 https://scrapbox.io/uochan/uochan[Masashi Iizuka]

This program and the accompanying materials are made available under the
terms of the Eclipse Public License 2.0 which is available at
http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0.

This Source Code may also be made available under the following Secondary
Licenses when the conditions for such availability set forth in the Eclipse
Public License, v. 2.0 are satisfied: GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 2 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version, with the GNU Classpath Exception which is available
at https://www.gnu.org/software/classpath/license.html.
